ref: document `exp run` behavior for untracked files (#2398)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/command-reference/exp/run.md

`dvc exp run --temp`, for example to continue working on the project meanwhile
(e.g. on another terminal).

> > ⚠️ Note that only tracked code and data will be included in `--queue/temp`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ Note that only tracked files and directories will be included in `--queue/temp`
```
Looks okay as is, but seems like `files and directories` is more general (covers params) and consistent with the rest of the paragraph.

Reviewer 2: True. Committing. But then I think I'll change the next occurrence to just "files" (Git doesn't track dirs per-se anyway).

> > experiments. To include untracked files or directories, stage them with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> experiments. To include untracked files, stage them with
```

> > `git add -N` first (before `dvc exp run`). Feel free to `git reset` them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `git add (-N)` first (before `dvc exp run`). Feel free to `git reset` them
```
Do you mind adding the parentheses back? Otherwise, it seems like `-N` is required.

Reviewer 2: I think it's the recommended way. Much safer than without `-N` for this trick, I think!

This is a temporary patch anyway right? Behavior-wise. It may take a while to decide what to do but still...

Reviewer: > Much safer than without `-N` for this trick

Is it? Looking at https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24329051/what-does-git-add-intent-to-add-or-n-do-and-when-should-it-be-used, my understanding is that `-N` is only useful to diff new files and edit their patches line by line. Once a file is staged/tracked by Git, experiments should track all changes to that file regardless of how it was added.

Since `-N` is not a common option, I worry it will confuse people if we recommend it by default. If you think it's not likely to be confusing regardless, I'm fine letting it go.

Reviewer 2: I think it's safer because the file contents don't actually get staged to Git, so even if you forget to `git reset` after, you'll only end up with some empty files in your main Git history instead of potentially unwanted contents. Either way it's slightly a hacky trick, hopefully a temporary patch.

I do agree it's uncommon somay be weary about unknown implications of `-N`... Idk. I'd wait on @pmrowla's opinion on whether to keep `-N` or not, but mentioning both probably adds to confusion.

Reviewer 2: Yeah you know what `-N` seems unnecessary since they'll be committed in the experiment anyway. Merging without it for now but again, we can revisit.

Reviewer: Yup, you put it better than I did.

> > `git add -N` first (before `dvc exp run`). Feel free to `git reset` them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> `git add` first (before `dvc exp run`). Feel free to `git reset` them
```

> > `git add (-N)` first (before `dvc exp run`). Feel free to `git reset` them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> `git add -N` first (before `dvc exp run`). Feel free to `git reset` them
```

> > ⚠️ Note that only tracked files and directories will be included in `--queue/temp`
> > experiments. To include untracked files, stage them with
> > `git add -N` first (before `dvc exp run`). Feel free to `git reset` them
> > afterwards. Git-ignored files/dirs are explicitly excluded from runs outside
> > the workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ Note that only tracked files and directories will be included in
> `--queue/temp` experiments. To include untracked files, stage them with
> `git add -N` first (before `dvc exp run`). Feel free to `git reset` them
> afterwards. Git-ignored files/dirs are explicitly excluded from runs outside
> the workspace to avoid committing secrets into experiments.
```

> > the workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> the workspace to avoid tracking unnecessary or sensitive information.
```
Wording might not be right, but might be good to include rationale.

Reviewer: This comment is new.

Reviewer 2: I'll add this info.

> > afterwards. Git-ignored files/dirs are explicitly excluded from the runs
> > outside the workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> afterwards. Git-ignored files/dirs are explicitly excluded from runs outside
> the workspace.
```

> > the workspace to avoid committing secrets into experiments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> the workspace to avoid committing unwanted files into experiments.
```
I wouldn't restrict it to secrets. It could also be lots of extraneous files, like the venv scenario.

`dvc exp run --temp`, for example to continue working on the project meanwhile
(e.g. on another terminal).

> Note that only Git-tracked and DVC-tracked files and data will be included in
> the execution environment when running experiments outside of your workspace.
> Git-ignored files and directories are explicitly excluded from the execution
> environment.
>

> > To include untracked files (such as new code or new DVC pipeline files) in the

Reviewer 2: Looks like you reviewed an old version somehow @dberenbaum, the "pipelines file" phrase is no longer there.

> What if the user had a new data dependency? Would they first need to dvc add newdata and then git add newdata.dvc?

Good Q. Should it get auto-committed (cached) now as long as it's in dvc.yaml `deps`? Cc @pmrowla

> > To include untracked files (such as new code or new DVC pipeline files) in the

Reviewer: Huh, this is an old comment, not sure why it shows as recent. I'll resolve to avoid confusion.

> experiment, you should first stage the file in Git using `git add <file>` or

> > `git add --intent-to-add <file>` and then use `dvc exp run --queue/--temp`

Reviewer 2: I was a bit confused by that too. My understanding was that it's a better option but only available for completely new files (so I put it in parenthesis like `git add (-N)` (the snippet above is outdated).

But now that I think about it, we're talking about totally new files here anyway... So removed the parentheses for now.

> > `git add --intent-to-add <file>` and then use `dvc exp run --queue/--temp`

Reviewer 2: > we're talking about totally new files here

Is that right though? Meaning, are changed files are included automatically (in their latest version)? Sorry, keep forgetting... I think so. Cc @pmrowla

> > `git add --intent-to-add <file>` and then use `dvc exp run --queue/--temp`

Reviewer: This was also an old comment. I think parentheses are fine, so feel free to add that back.

> > Note that only Git-tracked and DVC-tracked files and data will be included in
> > the execution environment when running experiments outside of your workspace.
> > Git-ignored files and directories are explicitly excluded from the execution
> > environment.
> >
> > To include untracked files (such as new code or new DVC pipeline files) in the
> > experiment, you should first stage the file in Git using `git add <file>` or
> > `git add --intent-to-add <file>` and then use `dvc exp run --queue/--temp`
> > once all of your untracked files have been staged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ Note that only tracked code and data will be included in `--queue/temp`
> experiments. To include untracked files or directories, stage them with
> `git add (-N)` first (before `dvc exp run`). Feel free to `git reset` them
> afterwards. Git-ignored files/dirs are explicitly excluded from the runs
> outside the workspace.
```
